So being able to post new servers would be awesome
and for that, we want to allow requests targeting /posts but these requests should now actually
be post requests.
Right now we're just using this middleware
which means all requests on our server or reaching our server will be handled by that middleware,
now we can narrow this down though. Instead of using app use, we can use app post and this will now essentially
attach a middleware which works like here but which only is triggered for incoming post requests, respectively
we of course also got app get, app put and so on.
So now we can say handle incoming requests, post requests to /apiposts and then we get our default
function with request, response and next
and in there, I want to do something with that post data.
Now we don't have a database yet
hence we can't store them for now,
this is something we'll add soon though. For now we can't store them so we won't really be able to process
them,
we won't be able to fetch them thereafter but at least we can check if getting the data to that route
works,
so what we can do here is we can simply output the posts we receive with console log.
The question just is how do we get access to the posts sent with the request?
Thus far our request has always been an empty request,
we didn't add any data because we only handled get requests thus far. Post requests
have a request body though, so they have data attached to them and we need to extract that data.
For that we can install an extra package which adds a convenience middleware which we can plug into our
express app that will automatically extract incoming request data and add it as a new field to that request
object on which we can then conveniently access it. To do that,
make sure you can enter a command for example by quitting the angular server and then run npm install
--save body-parser,
this is a node express package which can be used as an express middleware, body parser does exactly what
the name implies, it
well parses incoming request bodies, extracts the request data
because that will actually be a stream of data and converting it to just a data object we can use is
something which is done by the package and it then re-adds it on a special property to that request
object.
So let's go back to our app.js file and in there,
let's import this new package, body-
parser, you can name the constant however you want and then we simply require body parser like this.
Now we also need to use it, not just import it and we do use it by adding it as an extra middleware,
maybe in front of our cors headers but definitely in front of the posts request of course where we
want to use it,
so there I will add it.
Don't filter for a specific path,
I want to do this for all incoming requests and we don't use our function here,
instead we simply pass body parser and then call the json method and this will return a valid express
middleware for parsing
json data. By the way even though we don't need it here,
you can also use another feature of body parser in your apps and that's the
url encoded function, this will also parse the url encoded data, there you need to pass some
configuration,
extended false to only support default features in the url encoding.
Now that's just an extra line,
we don't need it here,
you could omit it,
I just wanted to show you that body parser is capable of parsing different kinds of bodies.
So now we're parsing that body,
now of course we want to use it. Here in the API posts
post route and there, we can extract our posts by accessing request body,
this is a new field added by body parser.
Now actually this will just be one post though, not a list of posts. So this one post is now available
here,
we can now log it in console log and we still need to return a response because it's still an endpoint for
an incoming request and to ensure that this request doesn't timeout on the client, we need to return
a response.
So we also call res and then maybe set a status code with the status function of 201, that
is a typical status code for everything is ok,
a new resource was created whilst 200 just means everything was ok but here we also added a new resource,
we didn't really, we didn't store it
but hey we'll do this later
and then we call json to send back json data.
Now of course we don't really need to send back data,
you can send back a confirmation message though, so you could send back post added successfully or don't
send back anything, really just well
what you need, that should also be successfully down there.
So now we have this set up,
now let's try it out
and for that, we again need to connect angular to this API endpoint.